XM2SCO V2.02
FAQ and README
By Paul Batchelor

	1. What is xm2sco?
xm2sco is a utility that will convert XM files to Csound score files.

	2. Paul made me download this. How do I compile, run the examples, and get outta here?
xm2sco can be compiled with a simple "make." If you desire to install it, run "make install"

In the examples directory, you can convert the example XM by running this:
xm2sco -t -v -i test.xm -o score.sco

This generated score file can be rendered with it's orchestra file:
csound song.orc score.sco

The rest of the orchestra files, are the single instruments. These can be run in orc2xi
like so:
orc2xi -i <INSTRUMENT>.orc

	3. What is an XM file and why is it important?
The XM module was a file format originally used by the music software known as
Fasttracker 2. The music program was designed to easily create long pieces of music
in a small amount of space. An XM file can be thought of as a midi file and soundfont
combined. Note information and effects are stored and played by simple sampler instruments.

	4. What should xm2sco be used for?
The intended purpose of xm2sco is to create mock-ups of Csound compositions. The idea is 
that you'd generate samples of your instrument in Csound, and then import them into 
Milkytracker. Inside of milkytracker, you can quickly create sequences without 
tediously writing scores by hand and using up DSP. 

The intent of xm2sco is to further fine tune scores after they have been rendered.
Verbose mode will write comments with your score, making it easier to know when 
sections start and stop. Multiscore mode will write each instrument to a separate 
score file. If you so desired, one could render each csound score to a separate 
audio file, import them into a DAW as stems, and treat them like you would any 
modern track. 

	5. How does xm2sco write score files?
xm2sco has a specific format when it generates i-statements. One possible 
i-statement could look like this:

i1 0 .25 8.00 .5

p1 tells us the instrument number. Milkytracker instrument numbers correspond
with Csound instrument numbers.
p2 tells us the start time of the note.
p3 tells us the duration of the note in beats. In this case, our note is being held
for a 16th note duration. 
p4 tells us the pitch in csound pch notation. This note is middle-C.
p5 returns an amplitude between 0 and 1.

	6. Why is my score file out of order?
The current algorithm can sometimes slightly shuffle up a score file that has multiple voices
happening at once. while not a problem with Csound, it can be frustrating from a readability
standpoint. It is currently being dealt with for future releases.

	7. What is orc2xi? 
Orc2xi is a tool to be used with xm2sco. It will read a specific kind of orchestra file
and automatically create an instrument that can be imported into Milkytracker. 
In order for an orchestra file to render properly, it must have the following characteristics:

a. There can only be one instrument. That instrument number has to be 1.
b. There can be no header file.
c. p4 must be for frequency in cspound pitch notation. 
d. p5 must be for amplitude between 0-1
e. The instrument must have audio outputs in order to produce sound.
f. If the instrument is stereo, only the left channel will be used. 

Example orchestra files can be found in the example directory. 
